Some of us have been in the truth for 40 years, 50 years, 60 years, or more.
During our life we may have been confronted with various tests or challenges.
Still, we did not and we do not give up the truth and our precious relationship with our heavenly Father.
Also, we do not give up preaching the Word of God.
Second Corinthians chapter 4, 16 is the theme Scripture I selected for this talk.
Please locate that with me.
Second Corinthians 4, 16.
It says,
Therefore, we do not give up.
But even if the man we are outside is wasting away,
certainly the man we are inside is being renewed from day to day.
As it said, we do not give up.
And we do not give in when it comes to temptations.
First Peter 3, 6 encourages us to not give in to fear.
Deuteronomy 13, 6 tells the Israelites that when a false prophet becomes active,
you must not give in to him or listen to him.
In the sermon on the mount according to an alternate rendering,
Jesus told his listeners to pray to Jehovah to not allow us to give in to temptation.
On one occasion, Peter encouraged others, quote, first Peter 3, 6,
Do not give in to fear.
We do give ear when somebody gives us good counsel.
We give serious thought when somebody wants to help us.
We give comfort to those in need.
In the first century, Paul gave comfort to the congregation in Corinth.
Please find second Corinthians 4, 1,
with me and we can read together.
And it says there.
Therefore, since we have this ministry
through the mercy that was shown us, we do not give up.
So who were the we, the anointed?
Second Corinthians 3, verse 3 tells the Corinthians,
there was the words of Paul,
that they are like a letter of Christ written by him and his friends as ministers
inscribed with the spirit of our living God.
The Apostle then, in verse 5, humbly acknowledges that the fact that he and the Corinthians
were qualified came from God and in verse 6,
that he has adequately qualified Christians to be ministers of a new covenant.
What did Paul refer to when he said in verse 1?
Since we have this ministry,
he referred to the ministry of that new covenant of which he was just talking about.
Please follow the reading of 2nd Corinthians chapter 3, verses 5 and 6,
where it says,
not that we ourselves are adequately qualified to consider that anything comes from us,
but our being adequately qualified comes from God,
who has indeed adequately qualified us to be ministers of a new covenant,
not of a written code but of spirit.
In 2nd Corinthians 3, 18, he says,
and all of us, while we reflect like mirrors the glory of Jehovah.
Well, who did he refer to when he wrote all of us?
He meant all of the anointed.
In chapter 4, verse 1, he says,
therefore, since we have this ministry through the mercy that was shown us,
the expression, therefore,
refers back to the reason and motivation for the anointed, not to give up.
In chapter 3, verse 18, he refers to the anointed as being transformed from one degree of glory to another,
culminating in the glory they receive when entering heaven.
Since the anointed are progressing from glory to glory until going to heaven,
they have a strong motivation not to give up, but endure.
Since there is such a precious price or reward ahead of them,
understandably, Paul said in chapter 4, verse 1,
therefore, we do not give up.
Also in 2nd Corinthians 4, 16, Paul wrote,
In the 3rd chapter, Paul contrasts the old covenant that was stripped of glory
with the new covenant that would, like verse 10 and 11,
says, Excel with greater glory, a glory that would remain.
In 2nd Corinthians 3, 12, says,
since we have such a hope,
what hope? The heavenly hope.
Did you note the similarity with chapter 4, verse 1?
It said, since we have this ministry.
What ministry was Paul referring to?
Was he referring to field ministry in a general sense?
No. He referred to the ministry of the new covenant.
In chapter 3, verse 7, he then calls the ministry of the new covenant a treasure.
Since we have this treasure, he said,
not just any treasure.
It was a great incentive for the anointed in the 1st century
to not give up in view of this treasure of the new covenant
that involves progressive glory.
Paul wrote, therefore, we do not give up.
Also the context of the next verses
shows that Paul was writing about the heavenly calling
that the new covenant made possible.
What Paul wrote is a strong incentive for anointed today
to not give up.
What about the great crowd of other sheep?
Paul did not have the great crowd in mind
when he wrote the words of 2nd Corinthians, chapter 3 and 4.
In the introduction to his letter, he referred to
quote, all the holy ones.
In 2nd Corinthians 1, 21 and 22, he says,
quote, who anointed us is God.
He has also put his seal on us.
However, the great crowd is a recipient of the radiant blessings
of the ministry of the new covenant.
Some time ago, the watchtower made a general application
and principle to the great crowd.
Just like the anointed have the treasure of the new covenant
and its ministry, the great crowd considers
their ministry also a treasure.
The great crowd is also determined not to give up
in view of the beautiful hope to live forever
in paradise on earth.
And all of us, no matter what hope, have to endure.
Paul wrote in 2nd Corinthians, chapter 4, verse 8,
that we are hard pressed, some more than others.
Please find Psalm 90 was 10.
None of us are exempt from the pressures
that can cause discouragement.
And it says there,
span of our life is 70 years,
or 80 if one is especially strong,
but they are filled with trouble and sorrow.
They quickly pass by and away we fly.
Because of the pressures of life and disappointments,
most of us grow weary at times.
But we must remember that God never promised
that we would have a problem-free life in this old system.
Even in the first century, God's servants faced
adversities, including persecution and poverty.
Jehovah does allow his servants to be tempted and tested.
For the time of the end, he also foretold
earthquakes, wars, increased lawlessness,
and pestilences according to Luke 21, 11.
In Revelation, he foretold that a figurative horseman
on a pale horse will kill a large amount of people.
This happened for decades now,
but started with a Spanish flu at the end of World War I,
where an estimated 500 million were affected,
one third of a man kind of that time,
and about 50 million died.
Satan exploits our moments of discouragement
just as a lion takes advantage of an animal
when it is most vulnerable.
But we will not give up.
We will not give up if others disappoint us.
In Bible times, even the most faithful servants of Jehovah
may have felt weighed down at times.
I have grown weary with my sying, wrote David.
All night long, I make my couch swim
with my tears I make my own dive-on overflow.
Why did David feel that way?
Because of all those showing hostility to me, he explained.
The hurtful actions of others caused David such pain of heart
that his tears flowed freely.
Still, David did not draw away from Jehovah
because of what fellow humans had done to him.
And neither do we.
Similarly, the words or actions of others
may cause as much pain of heart.
There exists the one speaking thoughtlessly
as with the stabs of swords as Proverbs 12, 18.
When the thoughtless one is a Christian brother or sister,
the stab wound can go deep.
The human tendency may be to take offense,
perhaps harboring resentment.
This is especially true if we feel
that we have been treated unkindly or unjustly.
We may find it hard to talk to the offender.
We might even deliberately avoid him or her.
Wait down with resentment, some have given up
and have stopped coming to Christian meetings.
How can we avoid playing into the devil's hands
when others disappoint or hurt us?
We must try not to harbore resentment.
It can hurt us so much that we start suffering from depression.
Instead of giving into depression or aggression,
take the initiative to make peace
or settle matters as quickly as possible.
Colossians 3, 13 urges us,
continue forgiving one another freely
if anyone has a cause for a complaint against another.
We do not have to fall prey to Satan.
Jehovah and Jesus are on our side.
How can we find encouragement to endure?
Jehovah deeply cares about those who may be discouraged.
Acts 17, 27 shows he is not far off from each one of us.
Jehovah comforts and strengths of us
through loving brothers and through his spirit and his word.
Reading the Bible daily and meditating upon it helps.
The publications have encouraged us to read the Bible
through once a year.
Why not make it your resolve to try such a program?
National Dory and anointed brother from Albania
who persevered on the ban said,
My goal was to read the Bible for at least one hour each day
which I did for some 60 years before my eyesight failed.
Was he bragging when saying this?
No, it helped him not to give up
under the extreme communist dictatorship.
We do not necessarily expect you to read the Bible
for one hour each day,
but we encourage you to read it through in one year
and read it slowly enough that you can meditate on it.
About 20 minutes a day provides ample opportunity
to read and meditate on what you read.
If you read so you hear your own voice,
it will help you to read slower and to meditate.
We also find encouragement through his organization,
things we read in the literature or magazines
and we greatly benefit from the congregation meetings.
We also benefit from sweet association with our brothers.
We live or we are television,
so do not give up.
When they shepherd also a big help for many to persevere.
Publishers in our congregation do a lot to strengthen us.
According to Hebrews 10.25,
it is God's will that we keep encouraging one another
and doing so is more urgent now than ever before.
Let us always keep in mind the inspired words of 2 Thessalonians 3.13.
For you apart, brothers, do not give up in doing good.
Galatians 6.9 similarly says,
quote, let us not give up in doing what is fine.
For in due time we will reap.
What do we conclude from this?
It is the words of our theme text, 2 Corinthians 4.16.
We do not give up.